Wisdom

If I control my drinking there’s no enjoyment 
If I enjoy my drinking there’s no control
In the end there was neither control nor enjoyment

I’m pretty smart, but nowhere near as smart as I thought I was

Too much will kill you
Not enough and you’ll go back out 

I would wake up behind doors I couldn’t open

Tell the truth let God handle the results

I have a level of pride that when I feel fear I take a step forward

I needed a drink way before I ever had one

Misery is always an option, it’s out there for the taking if you want it

All character defects come from either fear of losing something I have or fear of not getting something I want

I can’t get rid of my defects, but I can loosen my grip

At no point in time does more sobriety mean less work

The 4th step is just getting honest with a piece of paper

At some point I’m carrying a mess instead of a message

I can’t think myself into right acting, but I can act myself into right thinking

Can’t out-give God

If you don’t drink and you don’t die you’re gunna have a lot of sobriety 

I like me a whole hell of a lot more than I like anybody else 

I choose God as a first choice instead of as a last resort

I needed to figure out who turned their back on whom

Change doesn’t happen until the pain of staying the same supersedes the fear of the change itself

This program isn’t for people who don’t want to use anymore, it’s for people who will use again no matter what 

We all paid a high cost for low cost living

It does not matter how long you drank, it matters how you drank

On my best days I don’t think I have this thing beat, but on my worst days I still don’t think about drinking

Expectations are just premeditated resentments

Let someone else take that drink for you 

What other people think of you is none of your business

If you’re sponsoring yourself you’ve got a dumbass for a sponsor

God is cunning baffling and powerful as well

Pain is mandatory, misery is optional

We plan, God laughs

God’s gift to me is my life, what I do with it is my gift to God

I was the idiot choosing to stay stuck

You keep relapsing because you never ask him to stop you

Don’t be afraid to ask for the literal stuff

You want to be right or be happy?

I’m a little bit further from my last drink but just as close to my next

None of us come in here on a winning streak 

God probably has it figured out

Stop complaining, not because you have nothing to complain about but because complaining isn’t helpful

How long do you have to go to meetings? Until you want to 

If you’re in delusion you won’t know it because that’s what delusion means

Call it odd or call it God

What would you have me do?

What would you have me be?

I say “Thy will be done” not because I know what his will is but so that I can accept when his will is done

I don’t know exactly how to surrender, but I do know how to resist, so I try not to

Imperfect action is better than perfect apathy

If you can’t carry the message to people, carry people to the message

Do the next right thing, and if you don’t know what that is do the next thing right

It’s not my job to to understand my higher power, its my job to trust that it has my best interest at heart

The alcohol will get you drunk, the -ism will kill you

We’re not slow learners, we’re quick to forget

The second I start thinking about jail food and get hungry, I’m in trouble

I wasn’t a victim, I was a volunteer 

God, save me from myself

You can’t look back on the past because all you have is the future

I wasn’t told what I had, but someone shared what they had 

You’d better hope you’re the problem because your the only one you can change

The moment you’re more engaged with your sponsee’s sobriety than they are, you cease to be helpful

We’ll see 

A drunk man’s words are a sober man’s thoughts

If I’m in an argument I’m wrong

Thank God I don’t get my way anymore

The only thing I have to change is everything 

Surrender means being ok without getting my way

We’re terminally unique

A rich person is not the one who has the most, but the one who needs the least. 

Alcoholism and relationships are mutually exclusive terms

Alcoholism isn’t just a disease, it’s a lifestyle

Beliefs are demands to your unconscious mind

If you always do what you’ve always done, you’ll always get what you always got

The moment I begin to accept myself just as I am, then I begin to change

Pay attention to yourself

God is working 24 hours a day for your good

What I give is what I get

How come you’re always looking for God, he ain’t lost

Effort…result

Go through the motion, the emotion will take care of itself

Character is changed by action only

Give the fear to God and go about His business 

The 12 steps are a process of growing down to become an anonymous child of God

If you’re not taking direction, you are not surrendered 

You believe in God? Big deal so does the devil

I’m in no danger of being well

Maybe I’m the bitch

I’ve always worked for a reputation that I knew I didn’t deserve

I don’t need a reason to drink

Caring about your future self is just as hard and unselfish as caring for others

Cheer up! You’re much worse than you think!

So what?

The only way out is through

I wanted to be Robin Hood and the poor at the same time

I had to do better than everyone in order to feel equal 

Turn your life over to whatever will take it

God is at least the difference between living a life with God and without Him

I’m comparing your outsides to my insides and I’m losing every time

Victims don’t get sober

If alcohol takes the edge off I must be all edges

Grace withers without adversity 

Everyone feels benevolent if nothing happens to be annoying them at the moment

A 3 dimensional explanation of life is insufficient

When your spirit is right, the details will take care of themselves

You can always tell an alcoholic but you can’t tell him much

100% of the pain from you feel comes from resistance to accepting life on life’s terms

They say the truth will set you free but I’ll tell you it’ll ruin your day first 

You can’t do any of this perfectly, but you at least gotta be in the zip code

If alcohol was the problem then everyone who drank would be like us

What’s my drug of choice? Who knows, I never had a choice. Whatcha got?

God don’t make crap

God shows up where he’s invited and hangs out where he’s welcome

My mind would have killed my body a long time ago if it hadn’t needed it for transportation 

I may not be much, but I’m all I think about

This is not well people’s anonymous

Who knows?!

If I can physically say I’ve had enough, I’m lying!

We found we were far worse than we ever imagined, but far more loved than we’d ever dared hope!

There’s got to be a harder way to do this 

If you’re having problems practicing these principles in all your affairs you might have too many affairs

Alcohol and drugs won’t bother you until you bother them

Love is forgiving, love IS forgiving, love is for giving

Why do I lack the ability to accept conditions I cannot change?

As far as I know, God doesn’t even drink. He doesn’t want the alcohol, he wants me 

Everyone in AA can teach you something, either what to do, or what not to do

Pride precedes destruction

Before any need be met our faith must be expressed

What kind of God do you not believe in?

What does the book mean by “it”

If God is your co-pilot, switch seats

Am I trusting in an infinite God or a finite Lane?

Every day I have to get to God before my brain gets to me

Sit down and shut up

Acceptance comes after action

There is a God and everything is going to be ok

Just like pain tells you have a physical problem so you don’t keep harming your body, guilt tells you you have a spiritual problem so you do go on harming your soul

You can’t save anyone

God does for us what we cannot do for ourselves, but he doesn’t do for me what I can do myself

I’m here on borrowed time

Right here, right now, exactly as I am. That’s where I find God

Telling someone the offensive truth is always more loving than telling them compassionate lies

It’s not unfixable, it’s just your responsibility to fix it

The only real freedom a human being can ever know is doing what you ought to do because you want to do it 

If your problem is alcohol, just don’t drink

You alone can do this, but you can’t do it alone

I go to meetings to get my message

The sooner you get the stuff in your head to your heart the better off you’ll be

If I think anything long enough I’m gunna do it

God will never ask you to give up the greater for the lesser

Humility amounts to a clear recognition of what and who we really are, followed by a sincere attempt to become what we could be

 I can only ever be headed towards booze or God

In admitting that I had no power I received more than I ever had

It doesn’t matter how you got here, what matters is why you need to stay

Relief is ALWAYS temporary, I want a type of freedom that’s forever

When you no longer have a plan of what you’re going to do, you might have a chance to stay sober

Does my experience abundantly confirm the questions posed at the beginning of We Agnostics? The doctors opinion?

If you can’t remember your last drink, you probably haven’t had it (false)

A man takes a drink, the drink takes a drink, and then the drink takes him

God is more interested in my character than my comfort

I knew I had a power greater than me, I needed a power greater than it

Without God I can’t, without me he won’t

Willingness without action is fantasy

Lying about anything corrodes my ability to see the truth about everything

Honesty is doing what I say and saying what I do

Wake up hopeful, go to sleep grateful 

Suffering never ends, but freedom doesn’t either. They’re both always right there

There’s always more God to be had

I don’t know what’s best for me, I don’t know what’s bad for me

Look at yourself, don’t stare

God’s still doing all the work, even when he’s anonymous

If I think you don’t like me ima not like you first

I have just as abnormal a reaction to alcohol as I do to abstinence

It wasn’t the job I wanted, God had that one

I don’t stop making stupid decisions in sobriety, I just slow down and start making them with clarity

I’ll never get so sober that I can’t get drunk again, but I can get so drunk that I’ll never make it back

Who’s paying for you to be right?

My brain leaks

Life is lived forwards and understood backwards

You’re powerless like a lamp, it’s part of the design/you’re designed to be plugged in

Good when He gives, supremely good; Nor less when He denies. Afflictions, from His sovereign hand, are blessings in disguise.

God wishes to posses the heart ALONE

You cannot lose anything worth having through acquiring a knowledge of the Truth

It is utterly impossible to divorce true spiritual knowledge from right conduct

I have to demonstrate where I am. To seek to demonstrate beyond my understanding is not spiritual

You got 2 ears and one mouth for a reason

You don’t got this, I don’t believe in you. I instead believe in the Power that does. 

Happiness is wanting what you’ve got

As long as I’m running away from my problems, I will continue to meet them in different forms

To amend means to change for the better

Faith is a decision to act in courage and trust

I judge how I’m doing not by how I feel, but by what I’m doing 

I don’t have to be good at this, I just have to be a player in the game 

He is and I’m not

Commitment gets me started, consistency gets me results 

It’s not the things you don’t know, it’s what you think you know that just ain’t so

Joy is gratitude in the face of suffering

Think rightly, and sooner or later all will be well on the outside

It’s not so much what God asks of me, because he needs nothing, but instead what I’m willing to ask of God, knowing that I’ll receive it

Alcoholism doesn’t discriminate but neither does AA

God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks in our conscience, and shouts in our pain. It is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world

I’m not an employee, I’m a child 

If only we knew how Loved we really are

Out of 100 alcoholics you meet, 1 might read the big book, but the other 99 will read you

Only when I humbly call on God to act in my life, knowing that if He doesn’t I won’t succeed, am I rightly related to Him

You get what you look for, what you seek you will find

Is there a conflict between the person I am choosing to become and the person I currently am?

There is no magic in recovery, we get what we work for

Beautiful people don’t just happen

God loves because He’s loving, not because I’m lovable

The remedy for fear is faith, for faith means courage

Courage is fear that has said its prayers

I am punished BY my defects of character, not FOR having them

People need to be reminded more often than they need to be instructed

Instead of praying to have what you want, pray to want what you have

I now get to have problems in areas where I used to not have areas

I’ve learned I can’t trust my self in my best moments, and need not despair in my worst, as long as I continue to refuse to settle for anything short of perfection

Virtue brings light, indulgence brings fog 

There are only two main emotions in life, love and fear

What isn’t growing is dying

DENIAL - Don’t Even Notice I Am Lying

GOD - Grow Or Die/Gift Of Desperation

Dear God, I have a problem…me! Dear child, I have an answer…Me!

Which blade in a pair of scissors is more necessary?

The only help God will give you is perfect help. You may want something less, but He offers nothing less 

God is easy to please, but impossible to satisfy

Your reprieve can either be a responsibility or a threat

The only things we can keep are the things we freely give to God. What we try to keep for ourselves is just what we are sure to lose. 

Life, good, and God are synonyms 

Anticipatory anxiety creates the thing I’m afraid of

When virtue recognizes itself it immediately becomes vice 

At least now I get to screw up in different ways

What are you NOT doing?

If God brings you to it, he’ll bring you through it

Alcoholics only hate two things, the way things are right now and change 

If God is for me, I better be for me too

Often He sends diseases of the body to cure those of the soul. Comfort yourself with the sovereign Physician both of soul and body.

I no longer believe, I see

Love sweetens pain

If we knew how much He loves us, we should be always ready to receive equally, and with indifference, from His hand, the sweet and the bitter. 

We have all the answers for everybody but us

You can’t make someone cross the street in St Louis while they’re in Chicago, you gotta meet them where there at

Once you learn why people do what they do, they can’t hurt you anymore. People do what they have to, not what they want to

Once you learn better you do better

There’s no barter in love

It seems so hard to find God because he isn’t lost in the first place

Love includes possession, but not the necessity to possess

Anything done as a means to an end is self robbery. To be good for something is self robbery, be good for nothing instead!

The best way to prepare for tomorrow is to make today all that it should be

Pray in whatever way you find easiest, for easiest is best

I’ve been given a life I didn’t know I wanted and turned into a person I wouldn’t of even liked 

You don’t have to drink to start over

I stopped dying on 9/28/21

Sobriety is not taking anything that affects me from the neck up

spiRITUAL

You’re not guilty, you’re just responsible 

To realize means to become real

Spiritually Ill Can Kill - SICK

Pitifully And Incomprehensibly Demoralized - PAID

Ass Saving Kit - ASK

His Ever Loving Presence - HELP

Believing In God Beats Our Own Knowledge - BIG BOOK

People Relying On God Relaying A Message - PROGRAM

Solution To Every Problem Sober - STEPS

Not Using The Steps - NUTS

Sober Person Offering Newcomers Suggestions On Recovery - SPONSOR

Son Of A Bitch Everything’s Real - SOBER

AA BB CC DD - Alcoholics Anonymous, Big Book, Conscious Contact, Don’t Drink

Really exciting love affair turns into outrageous nightmare, sobriety hangs in peril - RELATIONSHIP 

Simply How I Think - SHIT

HOPE - Hearing Other People’s Experience

FEAR - Fuck Everything And Run/False Evidence Appearing Real

God grant me the grace to keep my tongue in my face

If God had a refrigerator, your picture would be on it

If you still have character defects, you’re just not using them right

You’re a bad employee and an even worse boss

I try not to get too involved in my own life 

Sometimes I wake up rubbing my own back

None of this means anything if it doesn’t mean something to you 

You can only hear what you can hear when you can hear it

If you don’t know where you’re going, every path will take you there 

It was never gods unwillingness to give, it was always my unwillingness to receive 

I do this thing to the best of my willingness, never the best of my ability

Alcoholics aren’t people whose problem is alcohol, they’re people who’s answer is alcohol 

I’ve always seemed to need a little more than there was 

I’m not a drinker, I’m a feeler and drinking makes it better 

You drink till your body makes you get sober, and you stay sober till your mind makes you drink 

The function of AA is to progressively and sustainably do for me what alcohol used to do immediately yet unreliability 

Stop chasing people past your exit

As long as I keep waiting until *I* realize I’m wrong to take action, I will continue to suffer humiliation. Once I humbly start taking action before *I* even think I’m wrong, I can endure the pain without suffering 

They don’t want your money, they just want theirs back

If I make an alcoholic reservation I’m gonna show up early

You can’t step in the same river twice 

If you can’t turn your will and your life over to the care of God, turn your thoughts and your actions over to the care of Alcoholics Anonymous 

You need to stop drinking and using… HOW?
not no, not why, not ok, but how?

I love thinking of myself at the podium haha 

A good sponsor doesn’t want the Sponsee to be like them, they want them to be like them 

You can live a life that makes sense to you without drinking

Learn to be effective, not right

Willingness is the demonstrable presence of the power of God 

Bless them, change me

They’re not doing it to you, they’re just doing it

If you don’t change the same man will drink again

ISM - I Suffer Mentally from an Internal Spiritual Malady when I Sponsor Myself

Yea, I’d worry if I thought it would help

Whatever, enough

As your life is being woven, just push the needle back through/When a door opens, walk through it

The real job of the sponsor is to keep the baby amused until AA works

You can’t rehabilitate someone who’s never in their life been habilitated before

Fear is the beginning of wisdom, shame is the nearest thing to innocence 

Very few of us know how much we have to know in order to know how little we know

Belief is capitalizing on the experience of others

Blessed are the lazy, for they shall find their shortcuts

All things betray thee, who betrayed Me

Those who deny God deny him out of their despair at not finding him

The image I have in my head that I think others see me as when I’m putting on a show is NOT what’s really seen

Nothing I can see with my eyes can fix my insides

Cussing is a crutch for conversational cripples

Love corrects, everything else corrupts

GODS NOT A PIMP

Methods are many, principles are few

You don’t have to become anything, you already are. Everything you ever can be, you are, right now.

There’s absolutely nothing to figure out here

TIME - Things I Must Earn

SLIP - Sobriety Looses It’s Priority

I lived between those heart shivers, where thinking or not thinking both get you nervous

Let go or get dragged

If you get any closer to God you’re gonna rip him off

Some of us have been here longer and that’s all that means

I don’t wanna get ahead of anyone else because Im scared I’ll loose my place in line

It’s not old behavior if you’re still doing it

Wisdom through excess

It’s not just desirable, it’s necessary 

I’m far more incapable of meeting the standard than I ever think I am, but the bar is far lower than I ever think it is as well

Once you realize the depths of your own ignorance, you realize what you don’t know is inexhaustible. But your troubles are also inexhaustible, so you better have an inexhaustible source to call on, which is your own ignorance. The fact that you don’t know is actually your greatest hope, because there’s always the possibility that if you humbled yourself and made friends with your own ignorance then you open up the landscape of revelation to everything you don’t know!

Where I find myself, that’s where I’m supposed to be

If we get better things get better

When in doubt, be of service

4/5 are rear view mirror small, 6-12 are windshield big

You owe God a death

Whatever you value the most, that’s what alcoholism wants 

If I knew him, I’d be him 

Well, I’m an alcoholic, but my problems Lane Haden 

The vast majority of the population fails at an acceptable level 

Six and seven are a fulcrum for change 

Don’t just do something, sit there!

You would not call a man humane for ceasing to set mousetraps if he did so because he believed there were no mice in the house

Is the Life-Force idea the greatest achievement of wishful thinking the world has yet seen?

I am under construction

We got a wrench for every nut here

Careless lives cost talk

Most of what I called “me” could be very easily explained 

Why am I nut drunk right now? Because I found what I was looking for in the bottle

The idea that I can control and enjoy my sobriety is just as delusional as the idea that I can control and enjoy my drinking. 

The fourth step is a moral inventory in that I’m not looking at where I was bad, but where I was wrong 

There’s two sides to AA, the spiritual side and the outside

I don’t always know what Gods will is, but I always know what it’s not

Don’t talk about it, be about it

The great reality of my life is that I cannot fix me, and I must give up trying

If you do it, God will work through it. He’ll get it done either way tho 

Freedom is to not want anything at anytime for yourself 

Never put a pillow under somebody’s head on their way down 

Nothing in this world could’ve gotten in between me and my last drink

Powerless is I can’t stand to drink, unmanageability is I can’t stand to be sober 

When you make a decision based on a lie, you encounter the truth at some point and your life becomes a living hell 

Belief is hope, faith is confidence

Step 1, am I miserable enough to believe that everything I know about myself and the world is wrong?

It’s not the alligators that’ll get you, it’s the mosquitos

You don’t gotta keep coming back if you stay

HAVE WILL - Harbored, Allowed, Victimized, Expectations, Walls, Irresponsible, Lied, Lacked Prayer

You don’t deserve anything that God gives you

GOD - Group Of Drunks

I’m a sober member of A.A. trying to live by certain spiritual principles, the way I believe God wants me to live. Two of these principles are restitution and amends, and I’m here today to make an amends to you for the harm that I’ve caused. My drinking affected our relationship and I deeply regret how I treated you. 
Here’s what I did… 
This is why… (Defects)
I’m not living like that anymore (6/7)
So I’m prepared to offer … as a way of making amends (or ask)
What else can I do to make it right? (Listen)
Are there any other harms I might have caused you? (Listen)
Do you have anything else you’d like to say to me? (Listen)

Pray as if it’s God doing all the work. Act as if it’s you doing all the work. 

There is no situation I’m incapable of making worse

I’m an aufulizer

Do your works give you life or do you find them exhausting? The answer might be a good indication of the authenticity of your faith

God it meant to be sought, not taught

I don’t think I even made decisions before sobriety

Ways to drink: 
Fun - I like the way it makes me feel
Function - It makes me feel the way I like
Oblivion - I don’t want to feel anymore, I want to get deep inside and far away

When you stop drinking, you meet somebody you don’t really like…YOU

Pride often masquerades as reasonable caution

Wet or dry, as long as it gets me high

Poison of preference

Listen to understand, not to reply

Restless - if I’m inside sitting down, it feels like I oughta be outside walking around, and vice versa. Wherever I’m at, that ain’t it

Irritable – I become keenly aware of how stupid everybody else is

Discontented - I just don’t like the deal I’m getting

The more you know the more there is to know

Step 1 is not just convincing me that I have a problem, it’s convincing me that I have no solution 

All we have to offer is identification and power

I’m a good aa til I’m a better aa than u are

Ppl pleaser = approval sucker

6: Is this objectionable?
Do I have the power to change it on my own?
Am I willing to have God remove it in whatever way He sees fit?
7: Take it to God, humbly on my knees, as a real price of business

Self judgment is just spiritual pride

I didn’t come this far to come this far

If you change your reason God will change your season

You cannot begin a spiritual exercise with an answer 

I was in 5th gear and everything was JUST out of reach

Show me how I separate myself from You and my fellows

Fear based decisions only lead to more fear

Take my advice, I won’t be using it

Once I see truth, I don’t know how much longer Grace is available to me 

I don’t have any future until I clean up my past

Earn and deserve
Believe and receive 

What I want got me here, what I need God gives me if I stay

I forget the shit I’ve done so I can be happy!

My life didn’t get better until I ran out of people protecting me from my consequences 

Getting away with it was an addiction for me too

Hell is the place that you go when you’d rather be dead 

I got off on feeling like nobody understood me

My moral decisions are not a private matter, they are cosmic one 

There is no courage without fear

Fear is lack of faith

No one standing still can triumph, no matter how well constituted 

If I want to become the person I’m meant to be, I’ll get there by doing God‘s will, not by asking how well I’m doing it

We’ve got a treatment center industry out there that wants to call it a disease, and treat it like a behavioral problem

I have to choose to not grow

We can’t tell you what to do, but we can help

Happiness is the byproduct of living a purposeful life

I’m continuously solving problems that haven’t occurred yet 

I’m obsessed with clearing away the wreckage of my future

I’m never the well, but sometimes I get to be the bucket

My porch experience was an infusion of grace

FEAR - False Evidence Appearing Real

My biggest problem is not my biggest problem, my biggest problem is how I feel about my biggest problem

Do you want sobriety more than you want a drink?

Our biggest flex is that God didn’t take his hands off us

Does it taste like more?

I was weird before there was ever a reason to be weird

God’s delay doesn’t mean God’s denial

You know the best time to plant a tree? 20 years ago. You know the next best time? Today. 

It is not virtuous to be victimized by a bully, even if that bully is oneself

He whose life has a why can bear almost any how

A mind preoccupied with planning pays homage to the idol of control

I got a whole lot more starts in me than I do stops

I shoot from the hip, miss, and then think my problem is that I don’t have enough bullets

AA is not a self help program, it’s a program of self abandonment and service

Being powerless over alcohol is no big deal, I’m free and I’m grateful!

How do I get a bigger God? I learn to play him less

There’s a big difference between busy and fruitful

If you really hate somebody, wish them spiritual growth. It’s guaranteed to be slow and painful!

Awareness is a gift

Do it just to do it 

Life doesn’t get any more manageable, I just get more spiritually fit 

I’ve gotta learn everything the hard way, and at least three times!

Love is allowing what is to be

If you have something to say, then silence is a lie

I’m a bad employee, but a worse boss

What you aim at determines what you see 

There’s only one excuse for prayer and meditation, and it that it’s not worth the time

You are too complex to understand yourself 

Faith is the realization that the tragic irrationalities of life must be counterbalanced by an equally irrational commitment to the essential goodness of being 

You are simultaneously the most complex thing in the universe, and someone who is unable to set the clock on your microwave. Don’t overestimate your self knowledge

To journey happily may well be better than to arrive successfully

The miracle that I was looking for was in the work that I was avoiding

If I think of the problem, it gets bigger. If I think of the solution, it gets bigger too

Pride falls in love with its own creations, and tries to make them absolute

If you will not reveal yourself to others, you cannot reveal yourself to yourself

We outsource the problem of our sanity

Life is indistinguishable from effortful maintenance 

Consider that you may be blocked in your progress not because you lack opportunity, but because you have been too arrogant to make full use of what already lies in front of you

Knowledge frequently results from knowing others, but the man who is awakened has seen the uncarved block

To give is to do what you can to make things better

The world is a forum of sharing and trading, not a treasure house for the plundering

I used to believe in God and depend upon alcohol

The only people in AA who don’t have sponsors are the ones who don’t plan on staying

If I don’t know it, it ain’t worth knowing

Alcoholism doesn’t let you see what it’s doing to you until you’re free of it

Grace is unmerited by definition

The only problem I ever had with alcohol was when I couldn’t get it

Typically, my solutions are worse than the actual problem

Ask God at night to allow people to treat you  tomorrow exactly how you treated them today

I gotta go through some shit, to get to some shit

I have a disease that will not go untreated. I can either treat it with drugs and alcohol, or the program

Stay little stay long

I’ve always got to be chewing on something

Been through hell, never been so well, what a beautiful story to tell

Most of us think alike, and we don’t think straight

If I stay the same, then the same man will drink again

It says enemy, not eneyou. The enemy is in a me

Shit still happens, it just don’t stink like it used to

If my mind is the problem then I am not the solution

You can’t go to the second step in a good mood 

Genuine spiritual writing always has a dimension of depth

The itty bitty shitty committee 

The essence of the 6th step is abandoning self reliance

Money comes with a warning label, “In God we trust”

Man am I under construction 

Don’t let your eyes distract you from seeing what God is doing in your life 

I forgive anyone and everyone who has ever harmed me at any time under any circumstances

You’ll know when you know you don’t know 

Never started living till I damn near died

If a sober thought got me drunk, is my mind my friend?

Gratitude is an attitude

Unless or until sobriety comes first, I can’t have it. And unless it remains first, I can’t keep it

The most immediately effective steps in the program are eight and nine

How does one get a prescription for a miracle?

I’m sure glad that the God that there is isn’t anything like the God I was told about 

Anything worth doing is an end in itself

Hatred is too strong an emotion to waste on someone you don’t like

The definition of serenity  is the ability to live  in this world comfortably, peacefully, and joyously with myself and those around me

I doubt very much if our value as a counselor equals our value as a listener

What you’re looking for you’re looking with, what you came here to get came with you

Some ships ply east and some ply west by the self same wind that blows. It is the set of the sail, and not the gale, that determines where it goes

Honesty without compassion is cruelty. Kindness without honesty is manipulation.

I felt like if I did what I was supposed to do then the world would do what it was supposed to do and then I’d feel whole

My mind is trying to kill me and make it look like an accident

That our sanctification did not depend upon changing our works, but in doing that for God’s sake, which commonly we do for our own

He regards not the greatness of the work, but the love with which it is performed

I feel that I better not enjoy this cause it’s going to end

I don’t love myself, I find the me in others and love them instead

Seriousness is a symptom of self involvement 

A miracle is a sudden freedom from a misperception

Living is just too big a proposition for anyone, no matter how capable or self-reliant they may be, to handle by themselves

Our admission of helplessness gives us an unanswerable claim on the infinite benevolence and power of God

Whatever is under my direct control is my will, whatever is beyond My direct control is his will

The war is over, you lost

We laugh ourselves weller than we were when we got sick

When I was sober, I felt bad and acted good. When I was drunk, I felt good and acted bad

It gets better when it’s ok how it is

We hire the handicaped

Can you or could you control the amount you use once you start? Do you know when you’ll get away with it?

Do you believe the physical craving would occur if you took a drink today?

Do you believe you could take two drinks a day for 30 days?

Did you ever drink when you didn’t want to, even when you swore off forever?

Do you believe that you’ll be unable to stop drinking on the basis of self knowledge?

Do you believe that you have lost the power of choice in drink?

Do you believe that you have two choices today, either live spiritually or die an alcoholic death?

Do you believe that a time will come where you have no effective mental defense against the first drink?

Do you believe that you must find a power greater than yourself that can solve your problem?

Gods grace lasts only as long as your ignorance 

If you can’t live without them you can’t live with them

The only problem with the truth is that it gives instant results 

You can never give away as much as you get by giving it away 

It doesn’t really matter what you expect from life, it matters what life expects from you

How much of God do I want to know

It never gets easy but it gets easier 

How many hours are there in a mile?

What would you rather do or go to the post office?

It don’t bother me u til I bother it, then we together bother the universe

Silence magnifies, waiting purifies

I’ve lost my bitchin’ rights

The longer you stay here the more you need us

If I have to know it all attitude, aren’t I being deliberately controversial? 

It never occurred to me that there was a way to do something that wasn’t the way I did it. 

If you think you have a problem with alcohol, you probably do

I didn’t have relationships, I had hostages

Alcoholics are just like other people, only more so

God has already given me everything I need, what he wants is my cooperation 

Help me do it your way

I’ve got a dire need to be different

My relationship with God is very personal, but not private

You would not have called to me unless I had been calling to you

Ready Fire Aim

Gratitude can turn common days into thanksgivings

In every situation I am responsible for the effort and God is responsible for the outcome

Either God gets me sober, or I get me high, no other options

Gratitude means what I have is enough

Others might feel they need my forgiveness just as much as I feel I need theirs

When you make a mistake, make amends immediately. It’s easier to eat crow while it’s still warm. 

When I can identify my own shortcomings in another, the battle ground between us is removed. 

How many chances for spiritual growth have I missed because false pride aroused a negative attitude towards amends?

Growth is characterized by an identifiable change in attitude for the better. 

Vocations are fragile, and tested in performance 

Although we cannot know God fully, we can know him truly

There’s no bottom in a cycle

The rule for amends is hard on us, easy on others

Hope is the feeling I have that “the feeling I have” will get better

God imposes balance where I don’t find it for myself?

An amends made to a family is the deepest and truest of family reunions 

Forgiveness depends more on the love of the one forgiving than the lovableness of the one being forgiven

They believe us when we swear off because we believe us when we swear off 

Comparison is the theif of joy

You cannot pray the Lord’s prayer, and even once say “I.”
You cannot pray the Lord’s prayer, and even once say “my.”
Nor can you pray the Lord’s prayer and not pray for another.
For to ask for “our” daily bread, you include your sister and brother.
All God’s children are included in each and every plea.
From the beginning to the end of it, it does not once say “me.”

You have touched me, I have grown

Don’t make light of those foxhole prayers

It is much easier to ride a horse in the direction he is going 

If you want it bad enough, you’ll find it 

If we were crazy, the shrinks would’ve kept us

Untreated alcoholism looks like anything that I’ve fixed 

I knew I couldn’t drink and live, and I didn’t know how not to drink

Sep 28, something left me that hasn’t returned, and I got something that hasn’t left me

Some of us are here because we’re not all there

I came to A.A. to catch alcoholism 

You do what i say and I’ll do what I wanna do

My problem is that I have a way and I want it

Thank god we’re not all sick on the same day

Bottoms have basements

A little bit of gratitude sprinkled on ANYTHING makes it better

I thought the red flags being thrown were confetti

If you love someone, set them free. If they don’t come back, it wasn’t meant to be

I’m not telling you how good I am, I’m telling you how good it is for me

God can run my life better than I can

If I could choose not to pick up a drink today, where then would be my need for God or AA?

I could do things, or I could drink. Not both. 

Anything I put between me and God is closer to him than I am

Quitting drinking is an event, recovery is a process

All I ever wanted was for life to get it’s foot off my neck

Don’t you think not going backwards is a big step forward?

I don’t want you taking anything that’s mine, even if I don’t want it! Step 6

Maybe what I need to be entirely ready for, is to be given more. Defect can mean absence.

Seeking to care, and bearing to give, before I die, I might finally live

 If all that we say  In a single day, With never a word left out,  Were printed each night  In clear black and white, It would make strange reading, no doubt.
 And then just suppose,  Before our eyes close, We had to read the whole record through;  Then wouldn’t we sigh,  And wouldn’t we try A great deal less talking to do?
 And I more than half think  That many a kink Would be smoother in life’s tangled thread  If half that I say  In a single day Were to be left forever unsaid.

I would swing at myself before you got a chance to swing at me

A taker of things and a user of people

I am no longer my own, but thine.
Put me to what thou wilt, rank me with whom thou wilt.
Put me to doing, put me to suffering.
Let me be employed by thee or laid aside for thee,
exalted for thee or brought low for thee.
Let me be full, let me be empty.
Let me have all things, let me have nothing.
I freely and heartily yield all things
to thy pleasure and disposal.
And now, O glorious and blessed God,
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,
thou art mine, and I am thine. So be it.
And the covenant which I have made on earth,
let it be ratified in heaven. Amen.

My delima has to be deepened 

I’ve lived a life full of tragedies, most of which never happened

Does it need to be said? Does it need to be said by me? Is it kind?

Alcoholics want to drink like other people, AlAnons want to think like other people

I need yall a lot more than I think I do

Money provides the means of saying encore in a voice that cannot be disobeyed

The problem with a self made man is that he worships his creator

If it’s to be it’s up to me

Every joy is beyond all others

Thus I must do: this I cannot do

Go out and show the world what God can do with a drunk

It is waking that understands sleep, not sleep that understands waking

“Had God designed the world, would it not be, / more firm, more fair, less frail than what we see?” / Oft sayeth Man, long pained and blind to Ye, / by blessing lost beneath that cursed tree. / Yet frail and faulty better suit not Thee, / But rather Man—who claims divinity. / Thanks be to Christ whose blood hath set us free!

Informed but not instructed 

I am king of my skull sized kingdom

But for the grace of God, there go I

You can’t fall off the center of a building

Sobriety is a series of surrenders and conformities

Acceptance is becoming willing to consider alternatives 

AA is not something I joined, it’s something I live

The depth of our anxiety measures our distance to God

Long distance, unconditional faith is the best kind

I ask God to remove my character defects because I’ll try to remove the wrong ones 

You might have to stand in the line, I get to

I loitered with the intent to recover 

He made my mess my message

Remember who’s you are

We’re great quitters and better starters

Time is a gift, not a threat

Prayer is asking for the release of Gods heavenly purpose and power and life here on earth

The essence of all growth is a willingness to make a change for the better and then an unremitting willingness to shoulder whatever responsibility this entails

Am I spiritually fit or are things just going my way?

When my will is in line with Gods will for me, there is peace within

The secret to living is giving

There are a dozen views about everything until you know the answer. Then there’s never more than one.

I ordered this shit sandwich 

I work the steps until.

I’m lonely cause I drink and I drink cause I’m lonely 

The only one that can separate me from God is me

Prayer is a relationship; half the job is mine. If I want transformation, but can't even be bothered to articulate what, exactly, I'm aiming for, how will it ever occur? Half the benefit of prayer is in the asking itself, in the offering of a clearly posed and well-considered intention. If you don't have this, all your pleas and desires are boneless, floppy, inert; they swirl at your feet in a cold fog and never lift.

We carry the message, not the alcoholic

I’ve lost the power of choice, my higher power chooses for me now

OCD - Out of Control Dipshit

God grant me the wisdom to know that I don’t know the difference 

I felt too bad for the good ppl and too good for the bad ppl, so I didn’t belong anywhere

Show me your faith and by my works I’ll show you mine 

I’d hate to get too well too soon

After you do step three, everything that happens in your life has been designed and ordained for your growth

You grow or you go

I have a disease that tells me my blessings are incoveniences 

An obsession is a persistent intrusive thought that will not respond to reason

God is irresponsibility generous and gracious

Expect resistance but do it anyway

Fear knocked at the door; faith answered; no one was there.

All fear is self centered, it has no reality for anyone but me

I need… I want… I lack… I don’t have… 
Thank you God for your abundance

Let the main things be the plain things and the plain things be the main things

I decided to get serious about my faith before I had much to get serious about

You can live by your principles or you can live by your feelings, but rarely can you like by them both

Divine dissatisfaction 

If I could drink like a normal person, I’d be drunk every day

Gods address is at the end of your rope

Do nothing and be loving

The most toxic person in my life was me

My disease wants to kill me but it’ll settle for miserable

I know today that the best is yet to come

When we see Jesus as he is, we must turn away or else shamelessly adore him

Love acts the part, anything else is hypocrisy 

You don’t have to be anything but kind to carry a message

I’d like to tell you I’m better but some days I’m not so sure

I’m an arrogant doormat 

Follow the man who seeks the truth, beware of the man who’s found it

Real learning is a permanent change in behavior, brought about by sustained practice of the knowledge that you gained. You do it, and your transformed, and you don’t know why.

It’s either a lesson or a blessin 

There is nothing that can be done with anger that cannot be done better without it

Resentment is a studied denigration of another

Jesus doesn’t tell us what to do, but how to do it

If I am bold enough to ask for God’s guidance, I must act as if he has provided it

Prayer is an intelligent conversation about matters of mutual concern

If everything’s OK something’s wrong

Predictions are hard, especially about the future

I’ve become the person that I didn’t know I wanted to be

When I’m in fear you need managing

No matter where I was, I didn’t want to be there

When you come in love, fear falls

Nobody can make me feel anything

What if I was being planted not buried

Grace is Gods reaction to our action 

Step 1 - My life is unmanageable by me, drunk or sober

1,2,3 - Surender, to whom, the terms

I am in discomfort when i assign value to things that happen  

A request by its very nature unites. A demand, by
contrast, immediately separates.

Prayer is nothing but a proper way for
persons to interact. 

In finding God I find myself

Grace has to be drunk straight

A saint is not someone who is good but someone who experiences the goodness of God

Prayer is talking to God about what we are doing together

TIME - Too invested, make excuses 

I don’t feel good, so what? I’ll feel better later!

The discipline in between being motivated

The great illusion of mankind is that there’s more than one of us here?

A Saint is not someone who is good but who experiences the goodness of God

There are no rules

Guilt is the illusion that you’re actually doing something about it

God doesn’t have grandchildren 

Genuine self-acceptance is not derived from the power of positive thinking, mind games, or pop psychology. It is an act of faith in the God of grace.

Unless I face the truth I cannot be set free

If everything is ok I’ve not looked hard enough

To live til you die is to live long enough 

Left to my own devices I will self destruct

What role has God assigned for me today?

When you beat yourself up, use a feather

Success is moving from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm

It costs more not to grow

If not now, when?

Most great things are done in the world by people who don’t feel very good

You’re only late to your first meeting

You don’t know what’s cooking in another man’s pot

I was mad at them for me being wrong

What I resist persists

What I fear has come upon me

It is insane to resist what is

We do not do these things to stay sober, we do them, because we are sober, by the grace of God 

I wish I would have been there instead of just being there

What you “see” is what you get

There’s no wasted time when you’re helping someone else

God I ask that you let me see them how You see them

False Exterior Appearing Recovered

God will take you through it til you get it right

Trust and fear cannot coexist

Hope is most potent when it starts out impossible

Everything is as God will have it

Free Will really isn’t free 

It’s easier to stay sober than to get sober

I cannot talk my way out of a situation I acted my way into

It’s time to get a new sponsor when your life gets consistently better than theirs

It’s not selfish, it’s personal

We have no inspired translations

No word travels unchanged, yet no secret can be rigorously kept

I’m pretty sure that God is not who I was told he is, I’m not so sure he is who I think he is, but I am convinced that he is

Each minute of existence we are either growing into more or retreating into less

Love clarifies the happy irrationality of Gods conduct 

Dear Lord, grant me the grace of wonder. Surprise me, amaze me, awe me in every crevice of Your universe. Delight me to see how Your Christ plays in ten thousand places, lovely in limbs, and lovely in eyes not His, to the Father through the features of men's faces. Each day enrapture me with Your marvelous things without number. I do not ask to see the reason for it all; I ask only to share the wonder of it all.

Let go of the old days that never were

Lord Jesus, we are silly sheep who have dared to stand before You and try to bribe You with our preposterous portfolios. Suddenly we have come to our senses. We are sorry and ask You to forgive us.
Give us the grace to admit we are ragamuffins, to embrace our brokenness, to celebrate Your mercy when we are at our weakest, to rely on Your mercy no matter what we may do.
Dear Jesus, gift us to stop grandstanding and trying to get attention, to do the truth quietly without display, to let the dishonesties in our lives fade away, to accept our limitations, to cling to the gospel of grace, and to delight in Your love. Amen.

Wherever I was everybody was in the way

Home is not a heavenly afterlife, but a safe place right in the midst of our anxious world

Pray as you can, don’t pray as you can’t

I am a bow on your hands, Lord.
Draw me, lest I rot.
Do not overdraw me, Lord. I shall break.
Overdraw me, Lord, and who cares if I break?

I will demonstrate my immediate obedience providing You comply with my demand for a more satisfying assignment.

To see the Law by Christ fulfilled, and hear his pardoning voice, changes a slave into a child and duty into choice

Home is where when you have to go there, they have to take you in 

The hill of Zion yields a thousand sacred sweets before we reach the heavenly fields or walk the golden streets

You’re a hose for your higher power, your one job is to stay un-kinked

He reminded me and I remembered him. That was all it took.

Perfect humility dispenses with modestly

How I think of God is of no importance except in so far as it is related to how he thinks of us

TRUST - Try Really Using Step Three

It ain’t them

I’m in the peddling business

Absolute humility would consist of a state of complete freedom from myself, freedom from all the claims that my defects of character now lay so heavily upon me. Perfect humility would be a full Willingness, in all times and places, to find and to do the will of God. 

Discouragement is a warning signal that I may have crossed the God line

I keep what I share

What was undertaken for the sake of health has become itself a new and deadly disease

Comfort the disturbed and disturb the comforted 

I’m sober so I’m not as smart as I used to be

My level of comfort is in direct relation to the degree of willingness I possess at any given moment to give up my self-will, and allow God's will to be manifested in my life.

Nothing that has not died will be resurrected

God, kindle within me the fire of Your love, so that love, burning bright and clear, might illuminate my thinking and permit me to better do Your will.

Have a great day, unless you’ve made other plans 

I keep coming back because I like the results that I’m getting

I got to the point where I couldn’t drink any more or any less

Hurry hurry lest the test comes early

Hate me now, love me later

I would rather see a sunset than hear a sermon, anytime

You’re not a mind reader, you’re barely a mind user

There are things that are not excusable, but nothing is unforgivable 

Pissed off people seem to get attacked a lot 

Faith is the willingness to expose myself to the truth despide the consequences 

I live on a world with a lot of oxygen in it

There nothing to do and nothing to say but I love you and here I am

I am overpaid

I lie when the truth would serve me better

Sponsorship is a built-in vacation from self

I can’t live in a spiritless world

Gods will - to live in alignment with reality

It’s done to me, not by me, but not without me

What you think you know is the noose around your neck

You can fool the fans but you can fool the players

I’m the kind of guy that’ll climb a tree just so I can worry about getting down

Whining is just anger coming through a small hole

HOPE - Hearing Other Peoples Experiences

God doesn’t choose the qualified, he qualifies the chosen

When I stop doing something I stop doing it hard

The only thing you ever get away with is the truth

I row the boat, God steers

If you’re trying to be like somebody else you’re squandering the gift

Obsession is all out war on powerlessness

Shoulds are somebody else’s rules

God’s got things for us to do because his hands are too big

Diversity without unity is indistinguishable from chaos

Learn to listen, listen to learn

Rarely do I have a thought of my own

Anybody, everything, all the time

Happiness begins where selfishness ends

I don’t have to drink to be retarded

Rarely have we seen a person jailed who has thoroughly followed our path

Nonalcoholics change their behavior to meet their goals and alcoholics change their goals to meet their behavior

I found god working all around me where previously I was sure I had been alone

What good is a thought if it’s not known? What good is a lesson if it’s not taught?

For every ailment under the sun
There is a remedy, or there is none;
If there be one, try to find it;
If there be none, never mind it. 

I don’t have to know where I’m going if I’m sure I’m on the right path

Other peoples problems are so much easier to fix

I keep my prayers short cause I can only mean so much at once

2 times to go to meetings, when you want to and when you don’t

Satan means accuser

Church means meeting

I couldn’t figure out who was supposed to be impressed by what I said 

Angel just means one who carries a message

It’s like watching a rerun of a show you don’t like

Too soon to tell, to late to worry about it

I want God to give me a map for my life, instead He gives me a compass

Two things that cannot be conned: God and the obsessions of my mind

My past can become my future if I don’t appropriately attend to my present

Sometimes “fuck it” is a spiritual experience

DSM - Drugs, Sex, Money

My God is defined more by function than by theory

You have a decision to make when you carry the message. Do you want to be effective or not?

But don’t ever confuse activity for action

God has rigged the game, the giver gets it all

The big book is directions to get struck by lightning

Some souls have to be born twice 

Know god, know peace/no god, no peace 

God could and would if he weren’t fought

The more I was thinking about it, the more I thought about it

It’s an all weather solution

Peace is destroying the authority of chaos

My real self is the choice maker

Identify do not compare

I came, I came to, I came to believe

I don’t have to do to be

My main objective today is to just love on folks

Seek to be amazed

Give til it hurts, then give a little more

There’s no room for truth where the game of alcoholism is played

Restless - your late with nowhere to go

Beyond the ordinary yet not spectacular

God blew the whistle and said “You, out of the pool!”
 
Grace is opposed to earning, not effort

It’s not what I think, it’s what is

God answers knee-mail

Unconditional positive regard

When I drank, I quit thinking about me and could just be

When God sends bitterness, we ought to feel it

If you’re gonna worry, why pray? 
If you’re gonna pray, why worry?

The beasts teeth get longer whether i feed it or not, each time it bites me it gets a better hold

Gentle persistence

Sometimes the best you can do is spit on a bonfire

The fish in the sea are not thirsty 

God will not compete for our attention

Time is made, not found

Embrace the suck

God removes our defects of character in the order they’re killing us

God, please give her a new husband, and let it be me

There’s a difference between compliance and surrender

God can be “To whom it may concern”

Just let God hold you for a minute

At every single moment I’m exactly where I’m supposed to b

If you have what I have, it’s not gonna come off in the shower

You can’t save your face and your ass at the same time 

A way to avoid Jesus is to avoid sin

The definition of insanity is to find something that works and stop doing it

I ain’t a hellava fella 

Failing does not mean failure

If anyone can screw this thing up, it’s me

When a man comes to you and tells you your own story, you know your sins are forgiven. And when you are forgiven, you are healed. 

Don’t waste time thinking about what thinking can’t change 

Depression and envy are cultivated sorrows

If I insist on being right, I’m wrong, even if I’m right!

I’m not a teacher, I’m a storyteller 

If you really want to know God, get to know his kids

I wanna be spuspiciously biblical

AA worked in spite of me

Whoever despises himself, still respects himself as someone who despises

We’ve been saved so we can save a life 

I was they guy that’s told you what Bill meant to say

See it or be it, it owns you if you don’t see it

I was born on third base, trying to congratulate myself for getting a triple

AA is a society of alcoholics engaged in action

So you wanna get even? How bout you start with the people who’ve been kind to you

You can not have the amount of love that you can give away

God can make good use of all that happens, but the loss is real

What’s necessary is always possible 

A bent man can do more evil than a broken one

Clearly God, uniquely me

A peaceful mind has no room for feelings of guilt

The more I pray the luckier I get

IRS - intelligence religion spirituality 

AA is the only place you can find us where we’re loose

If you wanna drink that’s your business, if you wanna quit that’s ours

A physical drink is preceded by emotional binges resulting from a spiritual blackout

Why do we pray? Cause it works!

I love me some me

Our worst days are never so bad that you are beyond the reach of God’s grace. And your best days are never so good that you are beyond the need of God’s grace. 

I’m not a functioning alcoholic, I’m a committed alcoholic 

I can handle a fearless moral inventory, I can handle a searching moral inventory, but both at the same time is a whole different beast

The only reason I ever drank was because I was sober

Physical sobriety doesn’t treat alcoholism, it reveals it

Defensiveness is the ear mark of spiritual immaturity 

If I don’t transform the pain I’ll transmit it

When pain comes we are expected to learn from it willingly

Love is the opposite of fear, faith is the path

Fear drives me straight into the arms of my loving creator

Give freely of what you find, not what you brought

God is more interested in our availability than our ability 

Gods got me in the crock pot instead of the air fryer 

Alcohol gave me wings, then took away the sky

You just gotta beat the person you were 24hrs ago

The depths of my shallowness know no bounds

You baby the drunk you bury them

I don’t have to stay sober for the rest of my life every minute

Unspoken commandments of the ego:
	1.	Thou shalt not have anything wrong with you
	2.	If you have anything wrong with you, thou shalt get over it fast
	3.	If you can’t get over it, thou shalt at least pretend to get over it
	4.	If you can’t pretend to get over it, thou shalt isolate 
	5.	If you insist on hanging around, thou shalt at least be ashamed of yourself

The only one sicker than someone at their first meeting is their higher power